Now we're actually ready to start creating the Elastic Beanstalk application,
and for that I'm actually going to go back to the command line.
And for extra, to kind of show you what this looks like end to end,
I'm actually going to clone this project fresh to show you exactly
like what would happen if like you were executing this as we usually
do like on a continuous integration server.
Like these are the steps that would happen to actually deploy this application
with the exception of actually initializing the application.
So, I'm going to go --- oops.
(Working) As you can see, I've practiced this once before, once or twice.
Alright, so I'm pulling down the application,
and when I'm ready to actually start deploying this thing,
the first thing I'm going to do is I'm going to cd,
oops, into the application directory, and I'm going to type the command.
Like at this point,
I assume that you've installed the --- we have the AWS CLI installed,
and when we do, that's going to put this eb command on our system path,
and this is going to be the primary way in which we
interact with the Elastic Beanstalk service.
So the first thing you're going to do is eb init,
and that is going to prompt you for a region in which you
would like to deploy your application.
And in this case, I'll go with US East Northern Virginia.
It doesn't it really matter.
And then you can --- if you already have an existing Elastic Beanstalk
application that you're looking to associate this project with,
you can choose that; otherwise,
you can create a new application which we're going to do here.
Alright, and this one we're going to call todomvc-plusplus,
which is a good enough default name.
And then it's going to try to detect the type of
application you're looking to deploy.
So for Elastic Beanstalk,
it supports certain types of applications for deployment.
Node.
js is one of them.
I'm going to say yes.
And then it'll ask you if you want to set up SSH for your instances,
which will allow you to associate the public key on your laptop with
your instances so you can actually SSH into them.
You can totally do that if you would like.
For demonstration purposes, I'm going to say no, and now we're all set up.
The one step that didn't happen for me, because I've already done this,
is I was not prompted for my AWS access key and secret.
So those credentials that you downloaded from the console before,
you'll be prompted to enter those in during the setup process when do eb init.
Alright, so now I have my application created,
and now I need to create an environment,
and this is actually going to create EC2 instances that will run my application.
So to do that, I'm just going to say eb create,
and it's going to prompt me for an environment name.
The environment name is generated by default.
It's just the name of your application -dev.
You call it whatever you want,
but I'll --- maybe I'll just call it todomvc and not
associate it with an environment.
And then you can enter a CNAME prefix,
which is going to be like the public URL for your Elastic Load Balancer,
which will send traffic to your actual Node application.
Todomvc would be fine for that.
For the load balancer, the classic configuration is going to be fine.
You can do either one.
The options are slightly different based on the region.
If you did Oregon, like I think there's a different default, for instance.
So,
now what is happening is something that is actually ultimately
going to fail because our application needs a little bit more
configuration before it'll actually run.
But what's going to happen is that Elastic Beanstalk is
going to provision an environment that we can administer
through the admin interface.
It's going to zip up the current contents of our application directory,
it's going to create a zip file of that,
it's going to upload that archive to S3,
and then that archive is actually going to be deployed to the EC2 instances
that are being created for Elastic Beanstalk right now.
So this is going to take a little bit,
but there's a little of information that we can already
start to glean from the output here.
It's creating a new environment for us.
So it's already created our S3 bucket,
and it has created a security group for our Elastic Load Balancer,
which is not something we care about because we're actually
more interested in the security group for the Elastic
Beanstalk instances themselves,
which we'll be able to get at the end of this process.
So this does take a while,
so this would be a good point if you wanted to continue along your journey.
If you've already downloaded your credentials,
going in to your application project directory,
doing eb init,
going through the motions of initializing your application project,
and then doing an eb create to create an environment to
actually deploy our application to.
So, got the environment going, again this is going to take a little bit,
but the thing that we would like to see get created is a security
group for our actual Elastic Beanstalk instances.
So, once we have that, then we can create the RDS instance,
which is actually going to talk to --- that our
instances are actually going to talk to,
our EC2 instances.
(Waiting) So, what did the 0 say to the 8?
Anybody know this one?
Nice belt.
Yes!
Be here all week.
Alright,
so now we can see that an actual EC2 instance has now
been created with this identifier.
By default we're only going to have the one instance created
that we can deploy our application to.
Alright, so we've got our Auto Scaling group created.
The instance is being added to it.
Chugging, chugging, chugging.
So it says it's safe to Ctrl+C,
but what would happen at this point if you did that?
You'd have to start over, right?
No, it would keep going.
The logs are still being piped.
Like if we Ctrl+C this, we could actually go into the console,
which maybe we'll do right now.
If we go to the Elastic Beanstalk console,
we can see that the todomvc environment is gray because it's still initializing,
but we could kind of view the logs and see what's happening there.
So there's --- oh good, we do have our security group already. I must've missed that.